---
layout: single
title: Development Efforts - 2020
---


## What I want to learn in 2020
There are a few things I've learned that I want to write down before I forget, and new things I want to learn.


### Write
Here are a few categories of things I know I want to write about next year.


###### Authentication &amp; Authorization
* WebAuthn application workflow with Yubikey and replying service authentication.
* GPG cert setup and management with Yubikey deployment.
* Password Storage `pass` in Linux with Yubikey (1Password replacement).
* Raspberry Pi single packet authentication with Fwknop.


###### GitHub CI/CD
* Travis CI pipeline with GitHub Actions for FOSS projects.
* Kubernetes cluster managenent for blue/green deployments.
* Static code analysis and dependent library CVE checking in GitHub. 
* Testing with the Vue Testing library and TravisCI.


###### Software Engineering
* VS Code debugging container project templates for Node/Typescript, GoLang and Python. 
* Deep dive into Javascript callbacks, promises, and async/await.
* TypeScript development with Generics.
* Develop and deploy a Cordova (Vue + Vuex) application.
* Contextual chatbot with a graph database and elastic search (three responses to action).
* Write a useful developer ZSH plugin.


###### CVE - Proof of Concept
* Find and proof-of-concept three developer related CVEs in container sandbox.


###### Infrastructure
* Kafka Pub/Sub messaging system with NodeJS sockets.
* Build out of Penrose documentation against roadmap.sh learning paths.
* Terraform and Ansible infrastructure deployments.


### Learn
And a few things topics I've learned already and ones I want to learn. 


###### Theory
* Data structures - linked lists, stacks, queues, hash tables, binary trees, heaps, graphs
* Algorithms - sorting (bubble, insertion, selection, merge, heap, quick), searching (linear, binary)
* BigO Notation and Process/System sizing.
* Software depoyment capacity planning.
* Unix File I/O and Daemon Processes.
* Linux Groups, Permissions, and Volume management.
* Effective Public Speaking.
* SRE logging and alerting best practices.


###### Technology
* Improve my `ZSH` usage and familiarity.
* GraphQL
* MongoDB
* Neo4JS
* Kubernetes
* Vue Native
* Web Components
* DNS Records - A, MX, CNAME, ALIAS
* DNS Authentication - SPF, DMARC, DKIM, DNSSEC


### Certification(s)
* GCP - Professional Cloud Developer

